I mean, this is exactly what, uh, open AI and D uh, dine at Google are. Uh,
I don't know if you've seen,
but there's something called reinforcement learning and artificial intelligence
where yeah, you have, like, they've done it for like Sumo wrestling. You have,
you have like,
you have these two stick figures that don't even know how to get up at first.
And they figure out how to stand their two feet and then they figure out how to
push the other person off of the, the, the pedestal, whatever. Wait.
So, but what about like, uh, when you look at the, the Boston dynamics,
sometimes they have trouble with like jumping and balancing and the other stuff.
So are they, are they doing that same program or no, no, no, no.
This different, uh, the everything Boston dynamics is doing, uh,
is hard coded. So it's not, um, it's not learning the,
all the sophisticated movements and strategies,
like high level strategies and movement.
That's all something that Boston dynamics does not do.
And if it does it like the park or stuff, that's all hard coded and, oh,
interesting. The people like project and think like these robots have like,
discovered like how to move in sophisticated ways they haven't discussed.
Well, that's what, when you and John were talking about the,
the grappling robot. Yeah. I mean, the one thing I was,
I was obsessing about in my head is that with the chess, right?
If a chess piece moves, right, uh, the horse can move like an L, right.
It can only move like an L.
It doesn't matter if it moves at two meters per second or seven meters per
second, it can only move. It can only move there. Right?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> whereas like a single leg,
I can shoot a single leg with many different velocities.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I can shoot a different angles.
I can shoot a different amounts of force. Right. I can shoot with my,
my head up versus my head. I mean, right. All these things are gonna matter.
If we're talking about <laugh> a human being, defending the single leg,
all of those things are gonna matter. And, and that's where human beings are,
uh, who wrestle are calculating those things.
Subconsciously they're obviously not consciously calculating into head. Oh, the,
the force is coming at me at this, so I need to do that. Right.
They're just doing feels.
But see, the, the thing is, so you would absolutely.
If you're doing a robot that you're wrestling,
you're going to have to constrain the speed at which it moves and the power that
it's able to, uh, deliver. So that presumably there'll be the limitation.
So then it'll be just the same exactly. As a human, but.
Then, but, but even so if we go human max force, which Jordan bros,
the level max force, right. <affirmative>, that's the highest,
that's the highest we get. And then we go down from there. Um, even, even with,
even within that, it's like, sometimes I can shoot single,
like with a maximum force of, I we'll just say, we'll say 20, this is a number,
right. Mm-hmm <affirmative> I don't know,
shoot it at 20 because I feel sometimes I shoot at 15.
Sometimes you shoot it at 12. Right? Mm-hmm <affirmative> cause you, you,
something in your opponent that makes you do it differently. Yeah.
So they would have to learn how, and, and then, you know,
all of these different things and sometimes maybe I clamp a little harder.
So the,
the robot would have to learn all these different incoming inputs to the system
mm-hmm <affirmative> and then create this.
Reaction. Oh no, no, 100%. So this would be all continuous, like, uh,
so unlike chess, it would not, it's just chess is discreet. There's it's, uh,
one and you move it. It's, it's a very specific set of moves. Now,
here you would,
those are all variables you control and they're continuous variables.
So the speed, the force there's actuators. So there's all these joints, right?
Yeah. You can move. I mean, it's just an optimization problem.
It's kind of FA it, it is fascinating.
So I've been fascinated thinking about it since you guys talked about it. I,
it was a long time ago. I listened to it probably three,
three to four weeks ago. Kind of been like obsessing about it ever since.
Yeah. It just changes when and um, so unlike boxing,
for example, or striking it, you know, once you grab ahold of somebody,
it, it change you're now one body mm-hmm <affirmative> right? Yeah.
So it's very complicated. It's not just shooting a,
a double leg without like maybe doing like,
like faking a double leg and then shooting the double leg.
That's very do with robotics.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> but then like doing a clench and from there doing like a
Russian tie mm-hmm <affirmative> that? Yeah. That that's, uh,
I think that's way harder than people realize in terms of how many things are
involved, like the force of the grip,
the leverage you're providing with all the different parts of the shoulder and
the arm and the torso, the twist. How much is your weight? Are you allocating,
like leaning on the other person? Yeah.
Like taking weight off of one of your legs on the other leg. All of that. I,
I think that's a really interesting thing about humans is we're able to do all
of this calculation subconsciously. Yeah. Subconsciously. Yeah.
And that's why I've been thinking about it since we, uh,
is like how many things,
even these high school athletes who are like getting medium good are
subconsciously thinking about all the time or not even not even thinking about
sorry, reacting to, um, but then even like, for me, I'm, you know,
I'm a few or mag do better than some of these kids that play. And so when I,
when I go like super hard, it's like,
I can feel they're weight moving the wrong direction.
And for me to off-balance them or trip them or whatever,
it's kind of easy sometimes, you know,
because they're not feeling it the right way. Right.
Or their timing's just a little bit off or the way they're grabbing the hit.
Maybe they should be up a little higher. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> these really small things. Um.
Yeah. I think that's all easy to take advantage of for a robot. It's just,
there's so many things, the, the big problem is ethically.
I don't know how many people are willing to train with a robot because you're
gonna get.
Hurt. Well, couldn't you make a robot change the robot or no.
Yes. But then it's expensive. So <laugh> cause.
They're gonna be what's the padding on that thing.
I know. But they, but then it's not, you know, it,
its <laugh> then, uh, you're not capturing the full, why.
Can't you put like some rubber coating on 'em or you know,
something for that effect.
You could, I mean, you could, yeah, you could. I mean,
you're talking about robots that are, these are humanoid robots,
so we're talking about 500,000 million dollar robots.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so you would have to be motivated.
<Laugh> spend a lot of money.
To spend a lot of money because you have to have them wrestle for
like a lot to get better. Yeah. To get better. Yeah.
And then the, the open question is
how long does it take to get good enough to be a human?
Uh <laugh>. I, I don't, I don't think, I don't think we understand.
I don't know. I don't think you understand how hard wrestling is. Yeah. Like,
is it a really hard problem? We're was harder chest wrestling.
Wrestling by far. Not even close.
That's. Yeah. That's the sense.
So, because there's an infinite amount of moves, right. Uh, and possibilities.
So once I shoot the single leg, now you have X amount of choices.
Once you make your choice. Now I have a choice X amount of choices. Now I,
now you have X amount of choice in the defense and we can just keep going back
and forth. Right. And this number becomes yeah.
But the same happens with chess.
Correct. But then in wrestling,
you have to make these movements in very instantaneously. Right.
Cause I should have saying like, I'm not gonna wait and say what's your defense.
Yeah. Right. Instantaneously. And then also again,
based on the force and the vectors and, and the angles,
you have to calculate that and adjust. So really, you know,
if you're saying I can shoot single, like it's not like moving Che.
It is not one move. Right.
It's if you wanna talk about different forces and stuff,
it could be hundreds or thousands of different moves based on how hard I shooted
the angle, the direction, all of those.
Things. Yeah. But wait a minute.
So robots can do this kind of stuff really fast. You what? I,
people probably know the physiology of this, but it's the,
the reaction speed for you, maybe a hundred milliseconds, something like that.
I don't know. From sensation to, to, to like from the,
the signal, traveling up your, your brain and down,
I don't know what that number is, but, uh,
robots certainly could do it way faster. It,
you would actually have to like constrain the speed. Well.
So the robots already killing the chest people, right? Yes. So yeah.
Theoretically they could eventually beat wrestlers,
but you ask what was hard wrestling or chest. Yeah.
And I think wrestling is because of the time component in it. And then the, and,
and the physicality of, you know, is it this force or that force, you know?
Cause if, if I'm gonna say, say we're in a seatbelt side by side, right.
A wrestling seatbelt, not you, <affirmative>
based on the pressure you're giving me, I might do a bunch of different things.
Right. And so like, to an untrained eye,
they might both look like the same thing from you to a trained feel. It's like,
well, in one case, it's really evident. I should go this one in another case,
it's really evident. I should go that.
Way. So the other thing to consider, just like with chess,
the AI systems.
So human versus human plays a certain way together. They actually,
haven't considered a really large number of strategies that AI systems discover.
So one possibility with a robot they'll discover certain ties and certain take
down. That's what I'm saying.
<laugh> that like will dominate no matter what the human does. You.
Think that, so you think there's that? So this, I mean,
I'm talking about the wrestling. So fun is there's even after 80 to 90 years,
there's this continuous evolution. Yeah. So you think.
There'll be some like low single type thing, like John Smith type of situation.
Well, like a down go behind is something thing that has really,
I would say really in the last five-ish years has really been evolved.
What's the go behind down block go behind. So when you're, well, they,
they just head inside or head outside matters, but there's one for both.
You shoot at me, essentially. I take my leg at boom. And then,
so that was kind of in existence when I was in college. Right.
You down block 'em and you stop. But usually you hit on this side of their head.
Right. And now immediately as you should I attack that shoulder and then I start
hitting a go behind on you. Right. And so like that in,
in its current incarnation, it absolutely wasn't wrong. When I was in college,
I would say it probably became popular I five to seven years ago. So yeah.
There's these big things that are happening now. Now I really wanna robot.
Cause I wanna be ahead of the gay. I wanna know like what I'm.
Missing. Exactly. I mean,
one interesting thing you have with alpha zero that plays chess is, um,
it sacrifices, pieces much more than humans do.
So it'll give you a piece and not only does it give you a piece,
it will wait a bunch of moves before it makes you pay.
So, because it knows that that's better.
For the long term. Yeah. Long term.
So like humans rarely sacrifice without getting the piece back,
like two or three moves after, uh, alpha zero can wait like five moves.
So, wow. So basically you'll have you potentially with wrestling,
you might have a, a robot that like puts itself in bad position,
but in a certain kind of way that that.
Will actually turn Lous to opponent in to trap. Exactly.
Not what my style is based on. <laugh>.
You basically narrow one, one thing to do is you narrow the set of choices.
You put yourself in a bad position, but it narrows a set of choices for them.
Cause they're not used to it. Yeah. They're not used to it. And, and then you,
you, I go into, uh, into your yeah. So, but there's also,
the problem is there's mechanical issues.
Like it's actually just difficult to build robots that, uh, are able to sense.
Cause we have sensation throughout our body. Yeah.
It's just difficult to build that kind of robot. It's expensive.
You start talking about multi multimillion dollars and then people still asking
you questions. Why did you invest all of this money? Don't see what they.
Do, duh. Hello.
It could be better investment.